## mark-mode()

| Accepted values: | internal \| dst-idle \| host-idle \| periodical \| none \| global|                                |
| Default:         | *internal* for pipe, program drivers, *none* for file, unix-dgram, unix-stream drivers, *global* for syslog, tcp, udp destinations, *host-idle* for global option                      |

*Description:* The mark-mode() option can be set for the following
destination drivers: file(), program(), unix-dgram(), unix-stream(),
network(), pipe(), syslog() and in global option.

- internal: When internal mark mode is selected, internal source
    should be placed in the log path as this mode does not generate mark
    by itself at the destination. This mode only yields the mark
    messages from internal source. This is the mode as syslog-ng OSE 3.3
    worked. MARK will be generated by internal source if there was NO
    traffic on local sources:

    file(), pipe(), unix-stream(), unix-dgram(), program()

- dst-idle: Sends MARK signal if there was NO traffic on destination
    drivers. MARK signal from internal source will be dropped.

    MARK signal can be sent by the following destination drivers:
    network(), syslog(), program(), file(), pipe(), unix-stream(),
    unix-dgram().

- host-idle: Sends MARK signal if there was NO local message on
    destination drivers. for example, MARK is generated even if messages
    were received from tcp. MARK signal from internal source will be
    dropped.

    MARK signal can be sent by the following destination drivers:
    network(), syslog(), program(), file(), pipe(), unix-stream(),
    unix-dgram().

- periodical: Sends MARK signal perodically, regardless of traffic on
    destination driver. MARK signal from internal source will be
    dropped.

    MARK signal can be sent by the following destination drivers:
    network(), syslog(), program(), file(), pipe(), unix-stream(),
    unix-dgram().

- none: Destination driver drops all MARK messages. If an explicit
    mark-mode() is not given to the drivers where none is the default
    value, then none will be used.

- global: Destination driver uses the global mark-mode() setting. Note
    that setting the global mark-mode() to global causes a syntax error
    in syslog-ng OSE.

**NOTE:** In case of dst-idle, host-idle and periodical, the MARK message
will not be written in the destination, if it is not open yet.
{: .notice--info}

Available in syslog-ng OSE 3.4 and later.
