---
title: Glossary
id: adm-about-glossary
---

## A

### alias IP

An additional IP address assigned to an interface that already has an IP address.
The normal and alias IP addresses both refer to the same physical interface.  

### auditing policy

The auditing policy determines which events are logged on host running Microsoft
Windows operating systems.  

### authentication

The process of verifying the authenticity of a user or client before allowing
access to a network system or service.  

## B

### BOM

The byte order mark (BOM) is a Unicode character used to signal the
byte-order of the message text.  

### BSD-syslog protocol

The old syslog protocol standard described in RFC 3164.
Sometimes also referred to as the legacy-syslog protocol.  

## C

### CA

A Certificate Authority (CA) is an institute that issues certificates.  

### Cadence icons

One Identity font that contains standard icons used in the user
interfaces for various One Identity products.  

### certificate

A certificate is a file that uniquely identifies its owner. Certificates
contains information identifying the owner of the certificate, a
public key itself, the expiration date of the certificate, the
name of the CA that signed the certificate, and some other data.  

### client mode

In client mode, syslog-ng collects the local logs generated by
the host and forwards them through a network connection to the
central syslog-ng server or to a relay.  

## D

### destination

A named collection of configured destination drivers.  

### destination driver

A communication method used to send log messages.  

### destination, local

A destination that transfers log messages within the host, for example,
writes them to a file, or passes them to a log analyzing application.  

### destination, network

A destination that sends log messages to a remote host (that is, a
syslog-ng relay or server) using a network connection.  

### disk buffer

Syslog-ng can store messages on the local hard disk if the central log server
or the network connection to the server becomes unavailable.  

### disk queue

See disk buffer.  

### domain name

The name of a network, for example: balabit.com.  

### Drop-down

Flare default style that can be used to group content within a topic. It is a resource
to structure and collapse content especially in non-print outputs.  

## E

### embedded log statement

A log statement that is included in another log statement to create a
complex log path.

## F

### filter

An expression to select messages.

### fully qualified domain name (FQDN)

A domain name that specifies its exact location in the tree hierarchy of
the Domain Name System (DNS). For example, given a device with a local hostname myhost
and a parent domain name example.com, the fully qualified domain name is
myhost.example.com.

## G

### gateway

A device that connects two or more parts of the network, for example:
your local intranet and the external network (the Internet).
Gateways act as entrances into other networks.

### Glossary

List of short definitions of product-specific terms.

## H

### high availability

High availability uses a second syslog-ng server unit to ensure that the
logs are received even if the first unit breaks down.

### host

A computer connected to the network.

### hostname

A name that identifies a host on the network.

## I

### IETF-syslog protocol

The syslog-protocol standard developed by the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), described in RFC 5424-5427.

## K

### key pair

A private key and its related public key. The private key is
known only to the owner, while the public key can be freely distributed.
Information encrypted with the private key can only be decrypted using
the public key.

## L

### license

The syslog-ng license determines the number of distinct hosts
(clients and relays) that can connect to the syslog-ng
server.

### log path

A combination of sources, filters, parsers, rewrite rules, and
destinations: syslog-ng examines all messages arriving to the
sources of the logpath and sends the messages matching all filters to
the defined destinations.

### log source host

A host or network device (including syslog-ng clients and relays) that sends
logs to the syslog-ng server. Log source hosts can be servers, routers, desktop
computers, or other devices capable of sending syslog messages or
running syslog-ng.

### log statement

See log path.

### logstore

A binary logfile format that can encrypt, compress, and timestamp log messages.

### Long Term Supported release

Long Term Supported releases are major releases of
that are supported for three years after their original release.

### LSH See log source host

## N

### name server

A network computer storing the IP addresses corresponding to domain names.

### Note

Circumstance that needs special attention.

## O

### Open Source

TODO

### Oracle Instant Client

The Oracle Instant Client is a small set of libraries, which allow you
to connect to an Oracle Database. A subset of the full Oracle Client,
it requires minimal installation but has full functionality.

### output buffer

A part of the memory of the host where syslog-ng stores outgoing
log messages if the destination cannot
accept the messages immediately.

### output queue

Messages from the output queue are sent to the target syslog-ng server.
The syslog-ng application puts the outgoing messages directly into the output
queue, unless the output queue is full. The output queue can hold 64 messages,
this is a fixed value and cannot be modified.

### overflow queue

See output buffer.

## P

### parser

A set of rules to segment messages into named fields or columns.

### ping

A command that sends a message from a host to another host over a
network to test connectivity and packet loss.

### port

A number ranging from 1 to 65535 that identifies the destination application of the
transmitted data. For example: SSH commonly uses port 22, web servers
(HTTP) use port 80, and so on.

### Public-key authentication

An authentication method that uses encryption key pairs to verify the
identity of a user or a client.

## R

### regular expression

A regular expression is a string that describes or matches a set of
strings.

## relay mode

In relay mode, syslog-ng receives logs through the network from syslog-ng
clients and forwards them to the central syslog-ng server using a
network connection.

### rewrite rule

A set of rules to modify selected elements of a log message.

## S

### SaaS

Software-as-a-Service.

### server mode

In server mode, syslog-ng acts as a central log-collecting server. It
receives messages from syslog-ng clients and relays over the network,
and stores them locally in files, or passes them to other applications,
for example, log analyzers.

### Skin

Used to design the online output window.

### Snippet

Flare file type that can be used to reuse content. The
One Identity syslog-ng OSE contains various default snippets.

### source

A named collection of configured source drivers.

### source driver

A communication method used to receive log messages.

### source, local

A source that receives log messages from within the host, for example,
from a file.

### source, network

A source that receives log messages from a remote host using
a network connection, for example, network(), syslog().

### SSL

See TLS.

### syslog-ng

The syslog-ng application is a flexible and highly scalable system
logging application, typically used to manage
log messages and implement centralized logging.

### syslog-ng agent

The syslog-ng Agent for Windows is a commercial log collector and forwarder
application for the Microsoft Windows platform. It collects the log
messages of the Windows-based host and forwards them to a syslog-ng
server using regular or SSL-encrypted TCP connections.

### syslog-ng client

A host running syslog-ng in client mode.

### syslog-ng Open Source Edition

The syslog-ng Open Source Edition (syslog-ng OSE) application is a flexible
and highly scalable system logging application that is ideal for creating
centralized and trusted logging solutions, for more, see What syslog-ng is.

### syslog-ng OSE

See syslog-ng Open Source Edition

### syslog-ng Premium Edition

The syslog-ng Premium Edition is the commercial version of the open-source
application. It offers additional features, like encrypted message
transfer and an agent for Microsoft Windows platforms.

### syslog-ng relay

A host running syslog-ng in relay mode.

### syslog-ng server

A host running syslog-ng in server mode.

## T

### template

A user-defined structure that can be used to restructure log messages
or automatically generate file names.

### Tip

Additional, useful information.

### TLS

Transport Layer Security (TLS) and its predecessor, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL),
are cryptographic protocols which provide secure communications on the Internet.
The application can encrypt the communication between the clients and the
server using TLS to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive log
messages.

### traceroute

A command that shows all routing steps (the path of a message) between two
hosts.

## U

### UNIX domain socket

A UNIX domain socket (UDS) or IPCsocket (inter-procedure call socket) is
a virtual socket, used for inter-process communication.
