---
title: Contributor License Agreement
id: doc-cla
toc: false
---

As part of submitting your Contribution to Quest Software Inc. and its
affiliates doing business under the Quest and/or One Identity umbrellas
(“Quest”), You accept and agree to the following terms and conditions
(the “CLA”) for Your present and future Contributions. Except for the
license granted herein to Quest for Quest’s and/or its licensees’ use
and access to your Contribution, You reserve all right, title, and
interest in and to Your Contributions.

1. Definitions.

    "You" (or "Your") shall mean the copyright owner or legal entity
    authorized by the copyright owner that is accepting this CLA.

    "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship embodying ideas,
    consisting of an expression of ideas, or other information, content,
    or materials memorialized in written or electronic format, that is
    submitted by You to Quest to be included in or document one or more
    past, current, or potential Quest product(s) (the "Work"). For the
    purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic,
    verbal, or written communication sent to Quest or its representatives,
    including but not limited to communication on development and/or
    repository platforms, electronic mailing lists, source code control
    systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf
    of, Quest for the purpose of discussing and/or improving the Work.

2. You grant to Quest and its designees and licensees a perpetual,
    irrevocable, non-exclusive, worldwide, fully-paid up and
    royalty-free license to use, sell, modify, reproduce, and distribute
    Contribution without restrictions of any kind and without any
    payment or other consideration of any kind, or permission or
    notification, to You or any third party. The license shall include,
    without limitation, the irrevocable right to import, market and
    advertise, transfer, prepare derivative works, combine with the Work
    or other works, alter, translate, distribute copies, host, display,
    perform, license the Contribution, and all rights therein, in the
    name of Quest or its designees and licensee throughout the universe
    in perpetuity in any and all media now or hereafter known.

3. You agree that Your Contribution is either Your original creation
    and/or Your acceptance of the terms of the CLA and act of granting
    the license(s) described herein do not violate the rights of any
    third party or applicable law or ordinance. If Your employer(s) has
    rights to intellectual property that You create that includes your
    Contributions, You represent that you have received permission to
    make Contributions on behalf of that employer or that Your employer
    has waived such rights for your Contributions to Quest.

4. To the extent that Your Contribution is not Your original creation
    but You are permitted to grant the license(s) herein based on
    licenses from all the third parties with rights to the non-original
    portions of Your Contribution, You represent that Your Contribution
    submission includes complete details of each and every third-party
    license or other restriction (including, but not limited to, related
    patents and trademarks) of which You are personally aware and which
    are associated with any part of Your Contributions. To clarify, do
    **not** submit a Contribution that includes any third party creation
    for which You do not have the necessary rights to (for example, the
    right to grant the above license to Quest and its designees and
    licensees).

5. You acknowledge and agree that Quest and its designees may create on
    their own or obtain many submissions that may be similar or
    identical to Your Contribution. You hereby waive any and all claims
    You may have had, may have now, and/or may have in the future, that
    the any documentation, information, or materials, reviewed and/or
    used by Quest and its designees and licensees may be similar to Your
    Contribution.

6. You agree that if any entity institutes patent litigation against
    You or any other entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in
    a lawsuit) alleging that your Contribution, or the Work to which you
    have contributed, constitutes direct or contributory patent
    infringement, then any patent licenses granted to that entity under
    this CLA for that Contribution shall terminate as of the date such
    litigation is filed.

7. You represent that you are not:

    a. physically located in any country subject to a United States trade
    embargo,

    b . a national or resident of any country subject to a United States
    trade embargo,

    c. a person or entity prohibited by the Export Controls from accessing
    the Work, or

    d. a person or entity that is engaged in activities related to the
    design, development, production, or use of nuclear materials, nuclear
    facilities, nuclear weapons, missiles or chemical or biological weapons.

    “Export Controls” means the export control laws, rules, regulations,
    restrictions and national security controls, including executive
    orders, of the United States.

8. You agree to notify Quest of any facts or circumstances of which you
    become aware that would make these representations inaccurate in any
    respect.
